---
author: Kendry
pubDatetime: 2023-03-18T15:22:00Z
title: Learning Rust - Structs & Collections
postSlug: learning-rust-structs-and-collections
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - rust
  - learning
description: Understanding collections and structs.
---

## Compile checker

Rust compile checker is kind of hard to work with if you don't fully
grasp the way it implements its ownership system. I've been struggling
more with the compiler trying to run my code than thinking about the
way of doing it.

That, of course, doesn't mean that I'm right, quite the opposite actually.
It means that I'm still thinking in how to write code in a language
that does not care at all how memory efficient it can be. I'm loving
the exercise of having to think about how the computer is actually
going to treat the changes in data and references I'm doing.

## Structs

Structs work just like classes do, they are ways of organizing
fields and methods for a type of data. We still need to handle ownership
for the values that use the Heap and also the privacy of the fields.
Fields and functions can be declared public (because they are normally
not), by using `pub` before their definitions.

Methods are done by implementing the functionalities of them, just
like when using the `derive` with a trait.

## Enum

Enums here have capabilities to hold or use data but it's the same
concept, if they don't have any type they recieve numbers intenally
in the order declared. It's also posible to declare an enum with
its types:

```rust
enum IpAddr {
    V4(u8, u8, u8, u8),
    V6(String),
}

let home = IpAddr::V4(127, 0, 0, 1);
```

I also go introduced to the `Option<T>` enum, which makes it so
a value can have either a value or note, for that an Option enum
can either be a Some<T> or a None, representing a non-value. To
catch every case from an Option, we can use the `match` expression.
It has several arms that express what to do in every case of an
`Option`. It can also be used with any enum, the only condition
is that every enum case should be handled.

```rust
enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter,
}

fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => 1,
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter => 25,
    }
}
```

## Collections

#### Vectors

Vectors are like arrays but have some functionalities that other
collections have to like getting an iterator from it. Vectors hold
data of the same type.

#### String

Even though the concept in high level languages of a string is
normally a single value, in Rust strings are a collection of
characters saved in the heap that store their data enconded in
UTF-8, that makes them not working necessarilly how one will expect
because of characters that take multiple bytes for a single
"graphameme".

#### Hash map

Hash maps are objects or dictionarys that store keys with their
respective values. They can be iterated like if it's an
enumeration with the a tuple of key and value.
