---
author: Kendry
pubDatetime: 2023-03-29T15:22:00Z
title: Learning Rust - I/O Project
postSlug: learning-rust-io-project
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - rust
  - learning
description: Real applications.
---

## Error handling

Error handling in Rust is mainly handled by using the `Result<T, E>` enum,
which takes two generic types on it's signature. It's used to
return something from a function with an `Ok()` or an `Err()`, where
Ok will contain the expected value from calling the function of type
`T` and Err should contain the error.

Errors from the standard library also have a `kind` property that lets
you handle the errors depending on the particular one you encounter.
This is useful when paired with `match`. Enums in Rust are awesome.

The Result enum also has some methods that are useful when retrieving the
Ok and Err value.

- `unwrap()` panics the whole program if the value is an
  Err or returns it if its Ok.
- The `?` operator propagates an error so that it can return inmediatly if
  the value as an error: `let mut username_file = File::open("hello.txt")?;`.

## Generics and Traits

Generics work exactly like they do on Typescript, they are used as placeholder
of types that can be defined when calling a function on creating a variable.
In practice, Rust creates the actual function definitions with the correct values
and types in compiling time.

Traits are implemented in types or structs, these are used as common functions
that can be used among types/structs. For example, when trying to compare if a
value is higher than another, what its used by Rust to do so is check if the type
of those values have the `PartialOrd` trait implemented on it and then executes
it.

A cool part of traits is that you can use them as an argument on a function by
stating that the value you are recieving at least implements an specific trait.
You can also use `+` to express it uses two traits: `pub fn notify(item: &(impl Summary + Display))`.

### Lifetimes

Lifetimes are how Rust can know if a value you send to a reference's value will
last as long as you send back. It's a weird concept that its hard to put in words
since I don't know any other way to do this is any other programming language I know.

## Minigrep

In the Rust book's chapter 12 there is a project of creating a cli tool called
minigrep that has the same funcionality as the search funcionality of [grep](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/grep.html).

I learned a great deal while making this project. I could continue to expand it
some more to make it more customizable, or at least easy to use but it's not
something I want to work on.

Some of the things I learned where:

- The `std::fs` package on the standard library has some functions to
  work with files.
- The `unwrap_or_else` function is great for when we are trying to get
  a value from a `Result` and the result returns Err. We can write a
  closure to the parameters of the function and handle the error within
  the closure's scope, probably ejecting the programm with an exit code
  other than 0.
- The `is_ok()` method with return true if a value exist or false if it doesn't.
  That makes sense when we are trying to see if an environment variable is setup at all.
