---
author: Kendry
pubDatetime: 2023-04-28T15:22:00Z
title: Learning Rust - Final
postSlug: learning-rust-final
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - rust
  - learning
description: Finishing the Rust book and thoughts.
---

## OOP in Rust

Rust is not designed as an object oriented programming language
but it does have capabilities that allow you to use the design
practices of it. For example, `structs` are made as object and
the `impl` block creates methods for them.

Encapsulation in Rust is default since the way to use a method
or even a struct from a library is through the `pub` keyword, otherwise
they remain unreachable by the main code trying to use it. Adding pub
to a struct makes it public but not its fields.

Another good thing I learned was that when using a variable, some types
have a method called `as_ref()` that instead of getting the value itself
you can get a reference to it. An example of this is:

```rust
pub fn content(&self) -> &str {
    self.state.as_ref().unwrap().content(self)
}
```

## Patterns

Rust is full of patterns that can be match anywhere, for that, the keyword
`match` is the best option to work with, it's basically a `switch` statement
but in steroids. It's an exahustive matching so you need to express what should
happen for every posibility of the match, specially when using `enums`.

The `while let` keywords are useful for when we are tying to pop all the
elements of a vector for example. Because it runs until a condition is no
longer true such as checking for `Some()` value until you recieve a `None`. EX:

```rust
let mut optional = Some(0);

while let Some(i) = optional {
    if i > 9 {
        println!("Greater than 9, quit!");
        optional = None;
    } else {
        println!("`i` is `{:?}`. Try again.", i);
        optional = Some(i + 1);
    }
}
```

You can also use `|` for an `or` operator when matching a value and `..=` is to
match on a inclusive range of values. It can also be used with characters:

```rust
let x = 5;

match x {
    1..=5 => println!("one through five"),
    _ => println!("something else"),
}
```

A match guard is an additional if condition, specified after the pattern in
a match arm, that must also match for that arm to be chosen. Match guards are
useful for expressing more complex ideas than a pattern alone allows. When
match guard expressions are on a match pattern, the Rust compiler will not
try to check for exhaustiveness.

## Unsafe Rust

Here I learned how to get away with basically cheating the compiler. It makes
sense to do it sometimes since the compiler does not know your specific use case.
To create some unsafe code you have to be on an unsafe block which is just instanciated
by writing `unsafe` before any scope of code. The list of things we can do while on an
unsafe block are:

- Dereference a raw pointer
- Call an unsafe function or method
- Access or modify a mutable static variable
- Implement an unsafe trait
- Access fields of unions

## Webserver

The last topic of the book covers how to create a multi-threaded webserver with
a walkthrough of it. I mostly learned about raw http requests and the TCP protocol.
Also learned that you can preallocate a `Vec` by creating it with `Vec.with_capacity()`.
Which will probably be faster when doing maps and large computations on it.

## Conclusion

Obviously, no amount of studying will make me "know" Rust, but I think this book was
great and it definitely opened up to me a whole lot of programming knowledge I didn't
know or was rusty at. I will now start to create things with Rust, starting with Moti.
I will also go throught The Primeagen's course on [Data Structures and Algorithms](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/algorithms/), that I will not do a devlog about but it's an important part
of some stuffs I want to do in the future. I loved the book and can't recommend it
enough!
