+++
author = "Kendry"
title = "Learning Rust - The Beginning"
date = "2023-03-15"
description = "Approach and motives."
tags = [
    "devlog", "rust"
]
toc = false
+++

## Learning Rust - The Beginning

I started the [Rust Programming Language book](https://rust-book.cs.brown.edu/title-page.html)
a couple of days ago, or at least started to get serious with it. The plan is to
create the desktop app I've been wanting to create for a while now. After checking
up into a lot of alternatives including [Flutter Desktop](https://flutter.dev/multi-platform/desktop) and [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/) I decided I wanted to
try something new and challenging, so I choose Rust.

It is true that it would have been a lot easier for me to create it using
Electron since I have a lot of experience with React but I'm at a point of my
live where I need to challenge myself in order to stay in my feet. And what
better than learning a high-level language that worries about pointers :sweat_smile:.

I expect a lot of re-reading, confusion, googling, and difficulty while embarking
in this journey. It has been quite a few years since I've used anything other than
javascript, python or flutter, needless to say that memory allocation is not
a big concern in the practical applications of those.

## Moti

Moti will be a desktop app where I can centralize some of the things I
presently use for productivity and plan to use in the future. Some features include:

- Mood tracker to understand a little bit more about my emotional patterns.
- Daily survey to keep track of things like motivation, things worked on, etc.
- Statistics for all the mentioned above.
- Scripts for tasks I need to do sometimes like joining some frames to create
  a [gif](https://twitter.com/kxngru/status/1584727757736398848).
- I have a list of motivational videos that actually give me a boost, so
  according what I think I'll need for the day, I will play one of these! (It
  baffles me how excited I am for this feature).
- Could possibly add some finance handling.
- Visualization of the state of servers/pages.

I will start a new devlog section for the development of this as soon as I
am a bit further ahead in the Rust book and actually start the project itself.

Until next time, where I will probably be overwhelm by what I learn.
